{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset161 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset1 Cambria Math;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}{\*\mmathPr\mmathFont3\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\b\f0\fs28\lang9 COMPUTER ASSIGNMENT 1\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\b0 Q1. Write a C program for calculating the price of a product after adding the sales tax to its original price. Where rate of tax and price is inputted by user.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans-\par
#include<stdio.h>\par
int main()\{\par
    float rot, op, tp;\par
    printf("Enter Rate of Tax : ");\par
    scanf("%f",&rot);\par
    printf("Enter Original Price : ");\par
    scanf("%f",&op);\par
    tp = op + (op * rot/100);\par
    printf("Total price of product is %.2f",tp);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q2. Write a C program to calculate the weekly wages of an employee. The pay depends on wages per hour and number of hours worked. Moreover, if the employee has worked for more than 30 hours, then he or she gets twice the wages per hour, for every extra hour that he or she has worked.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans-\par
#include<stdio.h>\par
int main()\{\par
    float hours, wages, tp;\par
    printf("Enter working hours of employee : ");\par
    scanf("%f",&hours);\par
    printf("Enter wages of employee per hour : ");\par
    scanf("%f",&wages);\par
    if (hours > 30)\{\par
        tp = 30 * wages + ((wages * 2) * (hours - 30));\par
    \}\par
    else \{\par
        tp = hours * wages;\par
    \}\par
    printf("Total payment of an employee is %.2f",tp);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q.3 Mr. X goes to market for buying some fruits and vegetables. He is having a currency of Rs 500 with him for marketing. From a shop, he purchases 2.0 kg Apple priced Rs. 50.0 per kg, 1.5 kg Mango priced Rs.35.0 per kg, 2.5 kg Potato priced Rs.10.0 per kg, and 1.0 kg Tomato priced Rs.15 per kg. He gives the currency of Rs. 500 to the shopkeeper. Find out the amount shopkeeper will return to X by writing a C program.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans-\par
#include<stdio.h>\par
int main()\{\par
    float currency = 500;\par
    float aq = 2.0, ap = 50.0, mq = 1.5, mp = 35.0, pq = 2.5, pp = 10.0, tq = 1.0, tp = 15.0, rtrn;\par
    rtrn = currency - ((aq*ap) + (mq*mp) + (pq*pp) + (tq*tp));\par
    printf("Shopkeeper will return to X is %.2f",rtrn);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q4.Write a C program to print your name, date of birth and mobile number in 3 different lines.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans-\par
#include<stdio.h>\par
int main()\{\par
    printf("Name : Shivam Shukla\\n");\par
    printf("Date Of Birth : 16-10-2005\\n");\par
    printf("Mobile : 6306346970");\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q5.Write a program to read an integer, a character and a float value from keyboard and display the same in different lines on the screen.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans-\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
int main() \{\par
    int integer;\par
    char character;\par
    float float_value;\par
    printf("Enter an integer : ");\par
    scanf("%d", &integer);\par
    printf("Enter a character : ");\par
    scanf(" %c", &character);\par
    printf("Enter a float value : ");\par
    scanf("%f", &float_value);\par
    printf("\\nInteger : %d\\n", integer);\par
    printf("Character : %c\\n", character);\par
    printf("Float value : %.2f\\n", float_value);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q6.Write a program to print the following line ( Assume the total value is contained in a variable named cost)\par
The sales total is : $ 172.53\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans-\par
#include<stdio.h>\par
int main()\{\par
    float cost = 172.53;\par
    printf("The sales total is : $ %.2f",cost);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q7.Raju got 6 and half apples from each of Raghu, Sheenu and Akash. He wants to know how many apples he has in total without adding them. Write a program which could help Raju in doing this.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans-\par
#include<stdio.h>\par
int main()\{\par
    float raju_apple = 6.5;\par
    float total_apple = raju_apple * 3;\par
    printf("Total apples that Raju has : %.1f",total_apple);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q8.Write a program that prints the floating point value in exponential format correct to two decimal places.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans-\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
int main() \{\par
    float value;\par
    printf("Enter a floating-point value : ");\par
    scanf("%f", &value);\par
    printf("Value in exponential format : %.2e\\n", value);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q9.Write a program to input and print your mobile number (i.e. of 10 digits).\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans-\par
#include<stdio.h>\par
int main()\{\par
    long long int mob;\par
    printf("Enter your mobile number : ");\par
    scanf("%lld",&mob);\par
    printf("Your mobile number is %lld",mob);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q10.The population of a city is 30000. It increases by 20 % during first year and 30% during the second year. Write a program to find the population after two years? (Ans: 46800)\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans-\par
#include<Stdio.h>\par
int main()\{\par
    int pop = 30000, f ,s;\par
    f = pop + ((pop * 20)/100);\par
    s = f + ((f * 30)/100);\par
    printf ("Population after two years : %d",s);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q11. Write a program to find the ASCII value of a character.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans-\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
int main()\{\par
    char c;\par
    printf("Enter a character : ");\par
    scanf("%c", &c);\par
    printf("ASCII value of %c = %d", c, c);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q12. Write a program to calculate salary of an employee, given his basic pay (entered by user), HRA=15% of the basic pay and TA=20% of the basic pay.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans-\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
int main()\{\par
    float basic_pay, HRA, TA, salary;\par
    printf("Enter the basic pay : ");\par
    scanf("%f", &basic_pay);\par
    HRA = (basic_pay * 15)/100;\par
    TA = (basic_pay * 20)/100;\par
    salary = basic_pay + HRA + TA;\par
    printf("The salary of the employee is : %.2f", salary);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q13. Write a program to find  the slope of a line and angle of inclination that passes through two points P and Q with coordinates (xp, yp) and (xq, yq) respectively.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans-\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
#include <math.h>\par
int main() \{\par
    float xp, yp, xq, yq, m, A;\par
    printf("Enter the value of xp, yp:\\n");\par
    scanf("%f%f", &xp, &yp);\par
    printf("Enter the value of xq, yq:\\n");\par
    scanf("%f%f", &xq, &yq);\par
    m = (yq - yp) / (xq - xp);\par
    printf("The slope of the line is %f\\n", m);\par
    A = atan(m) * 180 / M_PI;\par
    printf("The angle of inclination is %f degrees\\n", A);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q14. The SPI (Semester Performance Index) is a weighted average of the grade points earned by a student in all the courses he registered for in a semester. If the grade points associated with the letter grades awarded to a student are g1, g2, g3,\'85\'85.gk etc. and the corresponding credits are c1, c2, c3,.\'85..ck, the SPI is  given by:\par
Where, k is the number of courses for which the candidate remains registered for during the semester/ trimester. Write a program in C to calculate SPI for k =5.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans-\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
int main()\{\par
    float g1, g2, g3, g4, g5;\par
    float c1, c2, c3, c4, c5;\par
    float spi;\par
    printf("Enter grade points and credits of 5 courses :\\n");\par
    scanf("%f %f %f %f %f %f %f %f %f %f", &g1, &c1, &g2, &c2, &g3, &c3, &g4, &c4, &g5, &c5);\par
    spi = (g1 * c1 + g2 * c2 + g3 * c3 + g4 * c4 + g5 * c5) / (c1 + c2 + c3 + c4 + c5);\par
    printf("SPI = %.2f", spi);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q 15. Write a program to calculate the frequency (f) of a given wave with wavelength (\f1\lang1032\'eb) and speed (c), where c=\'eb*f.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\f0\lang9 Ans-\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
int main()\{\par
    float lambda, c, f;\par
    printf("Enter wavelength of light : ");\par
    scanf("%f", &lambda);\par
    printf("Enter speed of light : ");\par
\tab scanf("%f", &c);\par
    f = c / lambda;\par
    printf("Frequency = %.2f Hz", f);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q 16. A car travelling at 30 m/s accelerates steadily at 5 m/s2 for a distance of 70 m. What is the final velocity of the car? [Hint: v2 = u2 + 2as]\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans-\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
#include <math.h>\par
int main()\{\par
    int s = 30, a = 5, d = 70, v;\par
    v = pow((2*a*s),(1/2));\tab\tab //initial velocity = 0\par
    printf("Final velocity of a car is %d",v);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q 17.A horse accelerates steadily from rest at 4 m/s2 for 3s. (a) What is its final velocity? (b) How far has it travelled? [Hint: (a) v = u + at (b)  s = ut + \'bdat2 ]\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans-\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
int main() \{\par
    double u = 0.0;\par
    double a = 4.0;\par
    double t = 3.0;\par
    double v, s;\par
    v = u + (a * t);\par
    s = (u * t)+ (1/2 * a * t * t);\par
    printf("Final velocity: %.2lf m/s\\n", v);\par
    printf("Distance traveled: %.2lf meters\\n", s);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q 18. Write a program to find the sum of your four last digit of your university roll number .\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans-\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
int main() \{\par
    int roll_number;\par
    printf("Enter your university roll number : ");\par
    scanf("%d",&roll_number);\par
\tab int last_four_digits = roll_number % 10000;\par
    int sum = 0;\par
    while (last_four_digits > 0) \{\par
        sum += last_four_digits % 10;\par
        last_four_digits /= 10;\par
    \}\par
    printf("The sum of the last four digits of your university roll number is : %d", sum);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q19. Write a program to initialize your height and weight in cm. and kgs respectively demonstrating compile time initialization and convert them in feets and pounds respectively.  \b Note :- 1 cm = 0.393701inch , 1 Kg = 2.20462\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans-\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
int main() \{\par
    float height_cm;\par
    float weight_kg;\par
    printf("Enter your height in cm : ");\par
    scanf("%f",&height_cm);\par
    printf("Enter your weight im kg : ");\par
    scanf("%f",&weight_kg);\par
    float cm_to_inch = 0.393701;\par
    float kg_to_pound = 2.20462;\par
    float height_feet = height_cm * cm_to_inch / 12;\par
    float weight_pound = weight_kg * kg_to_pound;\par
    printf("Your height in feet is : %.2f\\n", height_feet);\par
    printf("Your weight in pounds is : %.2f\\n", weight_pound);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q21. Write a program that reads nine integers. Display these numbers by printing three numbers in a line separated by commas.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans-\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
int main() \{\par
    int numbers[9];\par
\tab printf("Enter nine integers one by one : ");\par
    for (int i = 0; i < 9; i++) \{\par
        scanf("%d", &numbers[i]);\par
    \}\par
    printf("Displaying numbers :\\n");\par
    for (int i = 0; i < 9; i++) \{\par
        printf("%d", numbers[i]);\par
        if ((i + 1) % 3 == 0) \{\par
            printf("\\n");\par
        \} else \{\par
            printf(", ");\par
        \}\par
    \}\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q22. What are header files and what are its uses in C programming?\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans- Header files are library files thet contains the definitions and prototypes of functions being used in program. They are also known as ".h" files. They are used to include frenquently used functions, variables and constants in a program with the help of a preprossesor  #include statement.\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q23. What will be the output of following program?\par

\pard\li720\sl240\slmult1\qj #include<stdio.h>\par
int main()\par
\{   int num=070;\par
printf(\ldblquote %d\\t%o\\t%x\rdblquote ,num,num,num);\par
\}\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans- This shows error because of double quotes.\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q 24. What will be the output of following program?\par

\pard\li720\sl240\slmult1\qj #include <stdio.h>\par

\pard\fi720\sl240\slmult1\qj void main() \par
\{\par
int x = printf("GLA UNIVERSITY");\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj    \tab printf("%d", x);\par
  \tab  \}\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans- The Output is\par
GLA UNIVERSITY14\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q25. What are library functions? List any four library functions.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans-Library functions are prewritten codes that can be used to implement a specific functionality like calculations, updation, etc. printf(), scanf(), strlen(), rand(), are some library functions.\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q26. What will be the output of following program?\par

\pard\li720\sl240\slmult1\qj #include <stdio.h>\par

\pard\fi720\sl240\slmult1\qj void main() \par
\{\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj  \tab   int x = printf("C is placement oriented Language") \f2\endash\f0  printf(\ldblquote Hi\rdblquote );\par
 \tab   printf("%d %o %x", x,x,x);\par
 \tab\}\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans- The output is \par
C is placement oriented Language\par
-1 37777777777 ffffffff\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q27. What is the meaning of following statement?    printf(\ldblquote %d\rdblquote ,scanf(\ldblquote %d%d\rdblquote ,&a,&b));\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans- The statement printf("%d", scanf("%d%d", &a, &b)); reads two integers from the standard input and stores them in variables a and b. The scanf function returns the number of values successfully read, which is 2 in this case. The printf function then prints the value returned by scanf, which is 2, to the standard output. Therefore, the output of this statement will be 2.\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q28. What will be the output of following program?\par

\pard\li720\sl240\slmult1\qj #include <stdio.h> \par
void main() \par

\pard\fi720\sl240\slmult1\qj\{ \par
  printf(" \\"C %% FOR %% PLACEMENT\\""); \par
\}\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans- The program will output the following string: "C % FOR % PLACEMENT".\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q29. Suppose distance between GLA University and Delhi is m km (to be entered by user), by BUS you can reach Delhi in 4 hours. Develop a \lquote C\rquote  program to calculate speed of bus.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans- \par
#include <stdio.h>\par
int main() \{\par
    float m, time = 4.0, speed;\par
    printf("Enter the distance between GLA University and Delhi in kilometers : ");\par
    scanf("%f", &m);\par
    speed = m / time;\par
    printf("The speed of the bus is %.2f km/h.\\n", speed);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q30. In an exam Satyam got 50 marks, Suman got 70 marks and Shyam got 80 marks, Write a \lquote C\rquote  program to find average marks of these three participants.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans-\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
int main() \{\par
    float satyam_marks = 50.0, suman_marks = 70.0, shyam_marks = 80.0, average_marks;\par
    average_marks = (satyam_marks + suman_marks + shyam_marks) / 3.0;\par
    printf("The average marks of Satyam, Suman, and Shyam is %.2f.\\n", average_marks);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q31. One day, Mohan called Saurav and Sajal and gave some money to them, later he realized that money that was given to Saurav should be given to Sajal and vice-versa. Develop a \lquote C\rquote  program to help Mohan so that he can rectify his mistake.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans-\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
int main() \{\par
    float saurav_money, sajal_money, temp;\par
    printf("Enter the amount of money given to Saurav : ");\par
    scanf("%f", &saurav_money);\par
    printf("Enter the amount of money given to Sajal : ");\par
    scanf("%f", &sajal_money);\par
    temp = saurav_money;\par
    saurav_money = sajal_money;\par
    sajal_money = temp;\par
    printf("After rectifying the mistake, Saurav has %.2f rupees and Sajal has %.2f rupees.\\n", saurav_money, sajal_money);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q32. One day when I was going for a lunch, suddenly rain started, I was very hungry so started running with speed of 4km/h and it took 3 min to reach mess. Help me to develop a \lquote C\rquote  program to calculate distance travelled by me.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans-\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
int main() \{\par
    float speed = 4.0;\par
    float time = 3.0 / 60.0;\par
    float distance;\par
    distance = speed * time;\par
    printf("The distance traveled by you is %.2f kilometers.\\n", distance);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q33. Can two or more escape sequences such as \\n and \\t be combined in a single line of program code?\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans- Yes, the format is printf("Hello\\tWorld\\n");\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q34. What are comments and how do you insert it in a C program?\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans- Comment is a piece of text which doesn\rquote t have any impact on the output of the program, it is there for documentation purposes.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Comments are completely ignored by the C compilers.\par
When you are working in an organization, you would want to include comments in your code so that the other programmer can understand the purpose of the code.\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
int main() \{\par
    // This is a single-line comment\par
    printf("Hello, World!\\n");  // This is another single-line comment\par
    /*\par
     * This is a multi-line comment.\par
     * It can span multiple lines.\par
     */\par
    printf("This is a multi-line comment.\\n");\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q35. What is wrong in this statement?  scanf(\ldblquote %d\rdblquote ,number);\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans- Their is a absence of & before number.\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj Q36. What will be the output?\par
\par

\pard\fi1170\sl240\slmult1\qj #include <stdio.h>\par

\pard\fi1170\li360\sl240\slmult1\qj int main()\par

\pard\fi1170\sl240\slmult1\qj\{\par
    if (sizeof(int) > -1)\par
        printf("Yes");\par
    else\par
        printf("No");\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans- No\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj Q37. Point out which of the following variable names are invalid: \par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj gross-salary INTEREST , salary of emp , avg. , thereisbookinmysoup\par
Ans- gross-salary, salary of emp, avg.\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q38. Tom works at an aquarium shop on Saturdays. One Saturday, when Tom gets to work, he is asked to clean a 175-gallon reef tank. His first job is to drain the tank. He puts a hose into the tank and starts a siphon. Tom wonders if the tank will finish draining before he leaves work. He measures the amount of water that is draining out and finds that 12.5 gallons drain out in 30 minutes. So, he figures that the rate is 25 gallons per hour. Develop a \lquote C\rquote  program to help Tom to calculate time required to completely clean tank.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans- \par
#include <stdio.h>\par
int main() \{\par
    float tank_capacity = 175.0, drain_rate = 25.0, time_required;\par
    time_required = tank_capacity / drain_rate;\par
    printf("The time required to completely clean the tank is %.2f hours.\\n", time_required);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj Q39. The percent y (in decimal form) of battery power remaining x hours after you turn on a laptop computer is y = \f3\u8722?\f0 0.2 x + 1. Develop a \lquote C\rquote  program to calculate after how many hours the battery power is at 75%?\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\lang9 Ans-\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
int main() \{\par
    float y = 0.75;\par
    float x;\par
    x = (1 - y) / 0.2;\par
    printf("The battery power will reach 75%% after %.2f hours.\\n", x);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj Q40.Which of the following is used to convert the high level language in machine language in a single go?\par
a. Compiler\tab\tab b.Interpreter \par
c. Linker\tab\tab d.Assembler \par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans- Compiler\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj Q 41. What is the format specifier for an Octal Number?\par
a.%0\tab  \tab b.%d \par
c. %o\tab\tab d. %e\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans- Option C is correct.\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj Q 42. Which format specifier is used to print the exponent value upto 2 decimal places.\par
a. %e\tab b.%.2f \tab c. %f\tab\tab d.%.2e \par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans- Option a is correct.\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj Q 43. Which of the following is not a basic data type?\par
a. char\par
b. array\par
c. float\tab\par
d. int\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans- Option b is correct.\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj Q 44. What is the output of following code?\par
#include<stdio.h>\par
void main()\par
\{\par
  int x=0;\par
  x= printf("\\"hello\\b\\"");\par
  printf(\ldblquote %d\rdblquote ,x);\par
\}\par
a. hello7     b. \ldblquote hello\rdblquote 7\tab  c. \ldblquote hell\rdblquote 8      d. hell8\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans- Option c is correct.\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj Q 45.  What is the output of following code?\par
#include<stdio.h>\par
void main()\par
\{\par
  int b,c=5 ;\par
  int(\ldblquote %d , %d\rdblquote , b,c);\par
\}\par
a. 5, 5\tab\tab\tab   b. 5, 5.000000\tab\par
c. Garbage, 5.000000       d. Garbage, 5\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans- None of the are correct.\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj Q46. Which of the following is an identifier?\par
a. &fact      b. Basic_pay    c. enum         d. 1sum \par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans- Option b is correct.\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj Q 47. What is the output of the following program?\par
#include<stdio.h>\par
void main()\par
\{\par
   char x, a=\rquote c\rquote ;\par
   x=printf("%c",a);\par
   printf(\ldblquote %d\rdblquote ,x);\par
\}\par
a. c1\tab\tab b. cgarbage\par
c. 1\tab\tab c. c\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans- Option a is correct.\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q48. Perform the following conversion from Decimal to other number as directed-\par

\pard{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf4\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl360\slmult1\qj\tx720 (365.55)\sub 10\nosupersub  =  (?)\sub 2\nosupersub\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}(453.65)\sub 10\nosupersub  =  (?)\sub 8\nosupersub\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}(5164.12)\sub 10\nosupersub  = (?)\sub 16\nosupersub\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}(23.65)\sub 10\nosupersub  =  (?)\sub 5\nosupersub\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}(772)\sub 10\nosupersub  =       (?)\sub 7\nosupersub\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans- (a) (101101101.10011)\par
(b) (705.51)\par
(c) (143C.21)\par
(d) (43.3)\par
(e) (2046)\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q49. Covert the following numbers to decimal number system-\par

\pard{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf4\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl360\slmult1\qj\tx720 (325.54)\sub 6\nosupersub  = (?)\sub 10\nosupersub\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}(1001010110101.1110101)\sub 2\nosupersub  = (?)\sub 10\nosupersub\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}(742.72)\sub 8\nosupersub  = (?)\sub 10\nosupersub\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}(AC94.C5)\sub 16\nosupersub  = (?)\sub 10\nosupersub\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans- (a) 1953.24\par
(b) 2002020220\par
(c) 5941.76\par
(d) 44054.77\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q50. Perform the following conversion from Hexadecimal to other number as directed-\par

\pard\li720\sl360\slmult1\qj  (DB56.CD4)\sub 16\nosupersub  = (?)\sub 2,\nosupersub    (?)\sub 8\nosupersub ,   (?)\sub 4\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\nosupersub Ans-(1101101101010110.1100110100)\par
 (3332533.314)\par
(323232122.231)\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q51. Perform the following conversion from octal to other number as directed-\par

\pard\li720\sl360\slmult1\qj (473.42)\sub 8\nosupersub  = (?)\sub 2\nosupersub ,   (?)\sub 10,\nosupersub    (?)\sub 16\nosupersub ,   (?)\sub 5\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\nosupersub Ans- (100111011.100010)\par
315.28125\par
13D.21\par
(1323.02)\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q52. Find the value of A?\par

\pard{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf4\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sl360\slmult1\qj (23)\sub 10\nosupersub  = (17)\sub A\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}\nosupersub (21)\sub 16\nosupersub  = (41\sub )A\nosupersub\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}(32)\sub 8\nosupersub  = (101)\sub A\nosupersub\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans- (a) A=16\par
(b) A=8\par
(c) A=5\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q53:  What will be the output of following program? Assume integer is of 2 bytes\par
void main()\{\par
int  a=32770;\par
printf(\ldblquote %d\rdblquote ,a);\par
\}\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans- The range is outside from 2 bytes.\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj Q54: #include <stdio.h>\par
 int main()\par
\{\par
 float c = 5.0;\par
 printf ("Temperature in Fahrenheit is %.2f", (9/5)*c + 32);\par
 return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Ans - Temperature in Fahrenheit is 37.00\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 